Title: Fracking Fraccidents

Members: Jonathan Hunt, Dillon Fitzgerald, Ryan Vreeland, Keegan Barefoot, Will Farren

Project abstract:
Fracking has been a subject of controversy since its inception. In this project, we investigate the correlations and causations of earthquakes with regard to the recent increases in fracking activity. Though many of the population take a side in the argument without substantial background knowledge, there are solid conclusions to be made based on the story the data can tell. In order to tell this story, we search numerous datasets for the features required in order to formulate useful and sound conclusions regarding the use of fracking and its possible negative effects in the mid-western region. The primary feature we look for is latitude and longitude coordinates of fracking wells and earthquakes. Another desired feature is date data for the wells and earthquakes. This data allows us to observe an extra dimension of the data, which will enable us to make more specific observations and come to more specific and useful conclusions. We make these observations and predictions of earthquake activity as it relates to fracking wells being drilled and operating. In order to make the observations, we use data provided by various organizations dedicated to researching this topic. By representing this data in maps, plots, and other visualizations, we obtain a coherent picture of the story that the data presents. After studying the data, we then formulate conclusions and make small predictions regarding future earthquake locations, intensity, and density. These conclusions are primarily based on correlations found between well drilling dates and earthquakes occurring in close time-proximity. Throughout the project, we refer to negative effects of fracking, as "fraccidents". These effects, as we investigate them, are primarily earthquakes. These fraccidents are a genuine issue for our society, and they could potentially become more sever and frequent. This possible danger is what we investigate deeper in this project. We hope that our analysis can improve the lives of the population through the predictive assessments of damages and possible ways of preventing dangers to people and communities as a result of fracking.


Language and version: Python version 2.7

Additional Packages:

Basemap: Download for Windows from https://sourceforge.net/projects/matplotlib/files/matplotlib-toolkits/basemap-1.0.7/
		 Download for MAC: Enter in console: pip install https://sourceforge.net/projects/matplotlib/files/matplotlib-toolkits/basemap-1.0.7/